# BP-Time-Prediction-using-KNN
This is the code to evaluate an enhancement of the remaining time prediction algorithm as discussed by Rogge-Solti and Weske to predict the remaining time of running process instances. More details about the functioning of the framework can be found in our master thesis "Enhancing Stochastic Petri Net-based Remaining Time Prediction using k-Nearest Neighbor Clustering". 

The code behind the framework consists of five Python files, of which the main file - the file you should run - is called framework_evaluation.py. In this file you should specify a path to both the training log as the test log. In the case where you only want to make a prediction for one current running trace you can select a test log that only contains this trace. Furthermore can some parameters be tuned in the beginning of this Python file: number of neighbors that are selected, number of simulations executed by the GDT_SPN model (for smoothening reasons, cf. our paper for more information), and number of iterations of the evaluation. 

Note that the program at the moment is mainly written for evaluation purposes, i.e., to show that the technique based on GDT_SPN models and kNN outperforms the proposed benchmarks on a selection of datasets. Providing some small adjustments the code can be used to do actual predictions, leaving out all information that is printed about the evaluation relative to the benchmarks. 

As also mentioned in the master thesis, the efficiency of the program can definitely be improved by programmers that are more experienced than us, since programming was not a main topic during our education some parts will not be written as efficient as possible. The code is enhanced with small comments that minorly explain the more complex functions, but you can reach either one of the contributors via our Github profiles in case of questions. 
